(monproc) add Centreon SQL Metrics monitoring procedure (#1462)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-monitoring-centreon-sql-metrics.md

overview of its virtual curves capabilities [here](https://thewatch.centreon.com/product-how-to-21/get-to-know-app-centreon-sql-metric-pack-and-start-building-some-virtual-curves-296)

## Pack Assets

### Templates

The Centreon Plugin Pack Centreon SQL Metrics brings a host template:

* App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Metrics-custom

It brings the following service templates:

| Service Alias   | Service Template                            | Service Description                         | Default |
| :-------------- | :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------ | :------ |
| Poller-Delay    | App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Poller-Delay    | Check the poller lag delay                  |         |
| Virtual-Curve   | App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Virtual-Curves  | Mix your metrics from several services      |         |

### Collected metrics & status

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Poller-Delay" label="Poller-Delay">

| Metric Name                    | Unit   |
| :----------------------------- | :----- |
| centreon.poller.delay.seconds  |    s   |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Virtual-Curve" label="Virtual-Curve">

> Metrics depend on the service configuration. Check The Watch [blog post](https://thewatch.centreon.com/product-how-to-21/get-to-know-app-centreon-sql-metric-pack-and-start-building-some-virtual-curves-296)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics depend on the service configuration. Check our [The Watch blog post](https://thewatch.centreon.com/product-how-to-21/get-to-know-app-centreon-sql-metric-pack-and-start-building-some-virtual-curves-296).
```

---
id: applications-monitoring-centreon-sql-metrics
title: Centreon SQL Metrics
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Overview

> This Pack ships metrics collected from Centreon SQL real-time database. Get a complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Pack ships metrics collected from the Centreon SQL real-time database. Get a complete
```

overview of its virtual curves capabilities [here](https://thewatch.centreon.com/product-how-to-21/get-to-know-app-centreon-sql-metric-pack-and-start-building-some-virtual-curves-296)

## Pack Assets

### Templates

The Centreon Plugin Pack Centreon SQL Metrics brings a host template:

* App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Metrics-custom

It brings the following service templates:

| Service Alias   | Service Template                            | Service Description                         | Default |
| :-------------- | :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------ | :------ |
| Poller-Delay    | App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Poller-Delay    | Check the poller lag delay                  |         |
| Virtual-Curve   | App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Virtual-Curves  | Mix your metrics from several services      |         |

### Collected metrics & status

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Poller-Delay" label="Poller-Delay">

| Metric Name                    | Unit   |
| :----------------------------- | :----- |
| centreon.poller.delay.seconds  |    s   |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Virtual-Curve" label="Virtual-Curve">

> Metrics depend on the service configuration. Check The Watch article linked at the top of this page.

Reviewer: pareil qu'en français

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

> The poller executing the check must be able to connect to the centreon_storage database over 3306/TCP port with values supplied through --username and --password options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The poller executing the check must be able to connect to the centreon_storage database over the 3306/TCP port with values supplied through the **--username** and **--password** options.
```

> The SQL user must hold required privileges to "SELECT" data within index_data and metrics tables part of the centreon_storage database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SQL user must hold required privileges to "SELECT" data within the **index_data** and **metrics** tables in the **centreon_storage** database.
```

> 

Reviewer: et la table instances?

> When using the Virtual-Curve service, the configuration file must be readable by the centreon-engine user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the **Virtual-Curve** service, the configuration file must be readable by the **centreon-engine** user. 
```

## Setup

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Online License" label="Online License">

> 1. Install the Centreon plugin package on the Central Server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the Centreon plugin package on the central server:
```

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Metrics
```

> 2. On the Centreon Web interface, install the **Centreon SQL Metrics** Centreon Plugin Pack on the **Configuration > Plugin Packs** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the Centreon web interface, install the **Centreon SQL Metrics** Centreon Plugin Pack on the **Configuration > Plugin Packs** page.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Offline License" label="Offline License">

> 1. Install the Centreon plugin package on the Central Server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the Centreon plugin package on the central server:
```

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Metrics
```

> 2. Install the **Centreon SQL Metrics** Centreon Plugin Pack RPM on the Centreon Central server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the **Centreon SQL Metrics** Centreon Plugin Pack RPM on the Centreon central server:
```

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-applications-monitoring-centreon-sql-metrics
```

3. On the Centreon Web interface, install the **Centreon SQL Metrics** Centreon Plugin Pack on the **Configuration > Plugin Packs** page.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuration

### Host

* Log into Centreon and add a new host through **Configuration > Hosts**.

> * Fill the **Name**, **Alias** & **IP Address/DNS** fields according to your *Centreon database server* server settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fill the **Name**, **Alias** and **IP Address/DNS** fields according to your Centreon database server settings.
```

> * Select the *App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Metrics-custom* template to apply to the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Apply the **App-Monitoring-Centreon-SQL-Metrics-custom** template to the host.
```

* Once the template is applied, fill in the corresponding macros. Some macros are mandatory.

| Mandatory | Name                     | Description                                                  |
| :-------- | :----------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
|     x     | CENTREONDATABASEUSER     | Username of the Centreon centreon_storage database           |
|     x     | CENTREONDATABASEPASSWORD | Password of the Centreon centreon_storage database           |
|           | EXTRAOPTIONS             | Any additional option.                                       |

## How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for? 

> Once the plugin is installed, log into your Centreon Central Server CLI using the **centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`) and test the plugin by running the following 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the plugin is installed, log into your Centreon central server's CLI using the **centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`) and test the plugin by running the following 
```
